---
title: "The Challenge"
date: "2020-10-21"
draft: true
tags:
- daily
---

So, the challenge is this: teach the world how to better make software.

But, I can't do it all. So, I choose to focus on where there is the most
opportunity for value: the software deployment pipeline.

We know from the DevOps Research and Assessment program
([DORA](https://dora.dev/guides/dora-metrics-four-keys/)) that there are only 4
proven reliable predictors of organizational performance for software teams.
They are:

1. Change lead time.
2. Deployment frequency.
3. Change fail percentage.
4. Failed deployment recovery time.

The *change lead time* measures the time for a code change to be deployed to
production. It reflects the efficiency of the software delivery pipeline.

The *deployment frequency* measures how often changes are deployed to
production. Higher frequency indicates a more responsive delivery pipeline.

The *change fail percentage* measures the failed deployments requiring
rollbacks or hotfixes. A lower rate indicates a more reliable delivery
pipeline.

The *failed deployment recovery time* measures the time required to recover
from a failed deployment. This also reflects the health of the delivery
pipeline.

Note that the only 4 proven reliable predictors of organizational performance
for software teams all require things of the delivery pipeline - that it be
efficient, responsive, reliable, and healthy.

The software delivery pipeline is both process and software. The software
component is not merely the software that is being deployed, but is also the
software that performs the deployments. This is the software build system.

Because I have seen, time and again, that software engineering leaders do not
well understand how to make a good software build system, that is what I will
teach.

This blog is all about helping software leaders to obtain excellent team
performance by investing in their software build systems.

Better software delivery pipelines create better teams.
