---
title: "What Is A Software Build System?"
date: "2020-10-21"
draft: true
tags:
- daily
---

This blog helps software leaders seeking excellent team
performance by investing in their software delivery pipelines.

Better software delivery pipelines create better teams. This is because the
pipelines directly affect the 4 DORA metrics: change lead time, deployment
frequency, change fail percentage, and failed deployment recovery time. In
turn, the 4 DORA metrics reliably predict organizational performance.

In my consulting practice, I help with all aspects of the delivery pipeline.
But, this newletter has a more narrow focus: the software build system.

The build system is the software that automates the software delivery pipeline.
It builds what is delivered.

If you have a software project, the build system is your Makefiles, your Bash
scripts, your Dockerfiles, your `package.json` file, your developer README
describing software prerequisites, your Git hooks, your GitHub Actions, your
CI/CID pipeline YAML files, your Kubernetes configuration, your AWS
credentials, your Python testing code, your Pulumi cloud configuration code,
and more. It is a *system* of software.

Your software build pipeline, as whole, may also include actions by humans -
approving merge requests, verifying Terraform plans, pressing the "deploy"
button, manually copying OCI images, manually changing DNS routes, and so on.

Though these human actions are part of the delivery pipeline, I exclude these
things from my definition of "software build system". However, here in this newsletter,
I intend to discuss how to transform these real-world actions into software
actions of the build system.

Welcome to the newsletter about software build systems.
