---
title: "Simple Evaluation of Change Lead Time"
date: "2020-10-21"
draft: true
tags:
- daily
---

If you are a software leader trying to improve your team's performance, then
have a look at your project's software delivery pipeline.

It makes sense to evaluate the 4 DORA metrics. Start with the change lead time.

Here's a good way to quickly assess the minimum change lead time.

Pick a trivially correct change that you can implement - say, a wording
improvement on a web app. Make the merge request (pull request) yourself, and
see how long it takes for the change to end up in production.

You may be unpleasantly surprised at the impediments.

Does the software even build on your machine? Can you be sure that the CI
machine will succeed when it builds and tests your change?

Does the CI machine have failures? If yes, then they are flaky because your
change is (by construction) trivially correct.

Does the merge request wait too long for a code review? Does a particular
(bottleneck) person have to perform the review? Does the review become a
[bikeshedding](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Law_of_triviality) exercise about
your wording change? Do developers understand how to ensure the fast flow of
changes?

Does the change sit in a queue of unshipped features still not deployed to
production after being merged, waiting for some infrequent manual deployment?
Is there continuous deployment?

This exercise has been enormously effective for me in the past to illuminate
the impediments to value flow on software projects. It will give the *minimum*
possible change lead time. The *average* change lead time is bound to be
significantly more.
