---
title: "Dev/CI Parity"
date: "2020-10-21"
draft: true
tags:
- daily
- dev/ci parity
- configuration
---

A common antipattern in structuring software delivery pipelines is to have the
developer build/test method differ from the CI machine's build/test method.

This is a lack of *dev/CI parity*.

The points of difference between CI and the developer's experience always cause
problems - even small differences.

- Developers can't reproduce problems on the CI machine.
- The CI machine finds problems that developers did not have.
- The developers can't successfully run a build. Or the tests fail on their
  machine when they pass on the CI machine. Or vice versa.

Each time this happens, valuable development time is lost trying to explain the
discrepancies.

The solution is to morph the developer build/test method to be more like the CI
build/test method, and to morph the CI build/test method to be more like the
developer build/test method, until each is as similar to the other as possible.
Do this aggressively. Once parity is reached, maintain it.

This way, dev/CI parity problems will not chip away at your team's productivity.
Most harmed by lack of dev/CI parity is the change lead time. (The other DORA
metrics will also be negatively affected.)

If you are a software leader trying to improve your team's performance, then
investigate the dev/CI parity. Failing CI runs is a good place to start the
investigation. Why did they fail? Did the developer not run a build/test before
pushing changes?

As you investigate, you will likely be confronted with a problem in software
build systems: configuration. It is difficult to ensure that the developer
machine is configured as the CI machine is configured. That can be tomorrow's
topic...
